rem max 48 characters across
rem 13 lines
123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678       *
rem Getting Started                          *
data
1
Getting started with the EM Formulary is easy.  Select the Formula, 
Conversion, or Reference Information you want to work with by using
the menu bar at the top of the screen.  All formulas require some
form of data to work with which can be entered via the input boxes
at the right side of the screen.  Boxes labeled "n/a" are not used
for the particular equation which is showing.  You can move from box
to box by using TAB and SHFT-TAB. Most input boxes require a numeric
entry but a few use alphanumeric characters.  Large and small numbers
can be expressed in "e notation", which is the conventional way to
use scientific notation (powers of ten) on the computer.  The input
boxes also accept the following engineering prefixes:

     T (tera, e+12
     g (giga, e+9)
     M (mega, e+6)
     k (kilo, e+3)
     m (milli, e-3)
     u (micro, e-6)
     n (nano, e-9) 
     p (pico, e-12)  
     f (femto, e-15)

Please take note of the units that are called for by each equation.  Most
formulas use MKS units but a few are better evaluated using cgs, English,
or dB units.  You can easily convert to the requested units by using the
Conversions menu.  Once you enter the input data, press Calculate
and your answer should appear in the display area at the lower left hand
corner of the screen.

rem Navigating the Formulas                  *         *
data
2
You may at first be overwhelmed by the number of formulas in the
Formulary.  They are intentionally not grouped very finely to make access
faster.  We sought to avoid the time consuming wading through menus
that other programs entail.  Eventually, more categorization will be
necessary but for now we stick to top level divisions only.  So how do you
get to the equations rapidly?  There are a several ways.  First, note that by
pressing the first few letters of the formula name, the menu list rapidly
narrows down the formulas that match the letters you pressed.  This will
quickly become very convenient as you use the Formulary.  Next, note
that the Formula menu keeps track of recently used equations.  So, as you
work out a problem you can return to recently used equations with one
click.  Another way to rapidly access your favorite equations, or even
rename and categorize them, is to use the Store and Recall buttons near
the input boxes.  These buttons allow you to save a formula under a name
of your choice and in a folder of your choice.  Therefore, you can create a
folder of "optics" equations if you choose. Finally, you should learn to
make use of the Search menu to find a character string within a formula
name.  In this manner you can find all formulas that contain, for example,
the word "force".   

rem Fine Tuning a Result
data
3
One of the neatest things about using spreadsheets is that you can change
an independent variable and see the immediate effect on dependent
variables.  The EM Formulary goes one step further by introducing what
are called spin controls.  Spin controls are the Up/Down buttons that
appear beside each input box.  These buttons allow you to increment or
decrement an input variable to see the effect on output variables.  They
provide a handy way to zero in on a desired result without having to
actually enter in numbers by hand.  You can control the size of the
increment by using Settings - Increment.  The default size is 10% steps but
you can make it larger or smaller.

rem Units and Dimensions
data
4
Everyone has their favorite units and dimensions.  A mechanical engineer
may like mils whereas a physicist may like femtometers or an astronomer
may prefer lightyears.  In the interest of providing a common interface,
the Formulary tries to adhere to MKS (meter, kilogram, second) units with
a few exceptions.  The Conversions menu can in all cases be used to
arrive at MKS from your favorite system (within reason).

rem Hyperlinks
data
5
If the requested data for an input box is colored in blue it indicates a
hyperlink to a related formula, conversion, or data.  This speeds up the
process of working through a problem and even has an educational
benefit.  To return to your previous equation use the Back button.

rem Search Function
data
6
Since there are so many equations, conversions, and data in the
Formulary, the Search menu is helpful in suggesting items which may be
of interest to you.  Type in any word or part of a word and all items
containing that string will be grouped for you in a separate list.  You can
then go directly to any item in the search result list by clicking on the
item.

rem Tables
data
7
The EM Formulary contains several useful tables of reference information
on major science and engineering areas.  These are available with a
couple of clicks.

rem Utilities
data
8
The familiar Windows Calculator and Notepad are available through the
Utilities menu and, in addition, there is a Stop Watch, an Event Timer,
and an Audio Generator.  These last three have come in useful from time
to time in the lab.  There is also a Qcard utility which displays records
of you database in random order which is useful for drilling on information
(e.g. foreign languages).  Version 2 of the Formulary has added an image
Viewer utility so that you can easily preview image files on your disks.
The image files can be linked to records in your database through the
Reference menu.

Although not strictly part of the Utilities menu, the Quickmath buttons (+,
-, *, /, 1/x, SQR) are always present on the main screen to help with
common math operations.  The nice thing about Quickmath is that it
automatically chains results and you can copy the final results to an input
box.  Of course, Quickmath accepts e notation (scientific notation).

Copy and Paste.  CopyText and PasteText work just like in a word processor
and may be used with the input data boxes.  EqCopy lets you copy the
equations and drawings for a formula to another Windows application.

Session Log.  You can log all the results of your session to a text file
(emflog.txt) by turning on the Log Results setting.  You can see this file
and annotate it from within the Formulary by opening Notebook.  If you want
to permanantly save the results you should save the file under a different name.

rem User Formulas and Data
data
9
Obviously, the Formulary will never contain all formulas for all people. 
However, if you like the Formulary's interface then you can access just
about any other Windows program from within the Formulary and you can
therfore add your own calculations to the Formulary's menu.  To do
this select File-Link To and establish the path to your calculation (e.g. an
Excel spreadsheet). Give the calculation a familiar name and it will then
appear under Formulas-User Defined in the Formulary.  Whenever you
click on your formula name, EMF will open the application that contains
your calculation and it will be available to you automatically.  No need to
try to remember a cryptic filename or go through the cumbersome file
openng process time after time. To delete a link from the User Defined
menu, select the menu item and  use File-Unlink From.

The Reference Information that comes with the EM Formulary is like a
set of index cards that you can use for your work.  It is alterable if
you care to add or delete to items.  Simply make changes in the large
text box (can't change the title) and click Update.  Click New to add
a new item.  Fill in the name at the top of the combo box and the 
information that goes with the name, then click Add.  If you don't want to
alter the information that comes with the Formulary (a good idea) then
simply load the database called user.mdb and add data to it instead.
Use File - Open Database to find user.mdb.  CAUTION: If you re-install
the EM Formulary it will OVERWRITE emf.mdb and user.mdb so you should
rename these before re-installing.  You can then use them under their
new names.  Further note: can't use single or double quotes in the
title for a new data item.

Beginning with Version 2 of the Formulary, you can link images to the
records in your data files.  The images should reside on the machine you
are using and do not become part of the user database itself.  Version 2
and higher of the Formulary cannot read Version 1 database files.    

rem Misc. Notes
data
10
Although the personal computer has come a long way, it can still bog down
on some of the longer calculations in EMF, e.g. the hypergeometric
function.  Please be patient and you will get your result before too long.

Equation Display - The EM Formulary makes use of Microsoft Equation Editor
to display equations correctly.  Equation Editor is part of Microsoft
Office and recent versions of Office may not install Equation Editor
automatically.  To install it, run Setup from the Office CD and choose
Add/Remove ... then Office Tools then Change Option.  Select Equation
Editor from the options and proceed to install it.

rem The EM Formulary Philosophy
data
11
The EM Formulary (EMF) is for people who like to calculate all kinds of
things.  This is why it rapidly grew from electromagnetics to physics and
math and why it continues to grow.  The calculations are not necessarily
elaborate, there are plenty of codes around that can easily tie you up in
endless details.  The EMF calculations are usually simple and designed to
bring you down to earth.  They function as sanity checks on more complex
calculations.  One of the beauties of science and engineering is that
although we get to manipulate complicated and impressive looking
equations, there comes a time when the equations must be reduced to
actual numbers and those numbers must be checked against the real
world.  If the equations are not taken to such an ultimate conclusion then
they might as well be paintings and written in pretty colors.

Another beauty of science and engineering is that the knowledge is not
restricted to persons with titles and advanced degrees.  Therefore, the EM
Formulary has attempted to interest users at all levels of education and in
various walks of life.  If an auto mechanic clicks on a special relativity
formula then the Formulary will have served its purpose well.  Yet, the EM
Formulary is a tool for working professionals.  It originated from every day
engineering calculations and is continually improved through usage and
customer feedback.  Your experience and needs are important to us and
we would enjoy hearing from you.
rem PSpice and Matlab
data
12
Some of the formulas or circuits have example PSpice, Matlab, TI-89,
or Multisim Electronic Workbench (EWB) code which you can use for
additional simulation.

PSpice has been a mainstay of the electronics community for nearly
thirty years and it is a great tool.  Student versions of PSpice are
available free at www.microsim.com.  To use the sample code, install
and start PSpice then File-New-Text File. Copy and Paste the sample
code.  Save the code from within PSpice as a .cir file.  Close then
reopen the .cir file and choose Simulation-Run. Your results can be
accessed by View-Output File or by adding an appropriate Trace in Probe.
Be sure to tell the folks at microsim that they have a great product
and to please continue to support the entry of circuit descriptions as
text files.  It makes analyzing circuits a snap and is much faster than
schematic capture.

Matlab is another easy to use tool with which you should be familiar.
Although not free, there is a relatively low cost version available.
Several examples of Matlab code are provided in the EM Formulary.
Try it, you'll like it.

The TI-89 is like having a small PC in your pocket.  It is easy to
program in a Basic style language and comes loaded with pre built
functions.  Useage is very similar to Matlab.  The EM Formulary contains
examples of TI-89 code which you can download to the calculator using
a special cable available from TI.  Most of the codes are small enough
that you can just type them in.

Multisim Electronics Workbench is taking schools and textbooks by storm
because it makes it so easy to build and test circuits.  A student version
costs less than $100.  The EM formulary install disk and directory contain
sample EWB files (.msm) which you can run.  You will need your own copy of EWB.
