Hypersignal Block Diagram includes a useful Filter Design tool which can be used to generate FIR and IIR filters.
Specialized libraries are available for enhancing the standard features of the Hypersignal Block Diagram application.
The Block Wizard tool will generate all source files necessary to create a new custom block function in minutes!
Block Diagram allows for rapid prototyping of DSP-based Products and Systems.
The optional ANSI C Source Code Generator can create source code automatically from your visual designs.
The Hypersignal HAppI Wizard allows you to very quickly create standalone applications from your visual design!
The Pegasus Parallel Processing System is available for developing real-time applications using multiple DSPs.
Hyperception can provide you with a solution for all of your DSP and acquisition hardware needs.
By using the Project Tabs you can quickly move to any block in the project.
The Project Tabs display usefull information about each block including Block Name, Menu Name, Group Name, Library Name, physical location, and other useful block information.
The Project Tabs can let you modify the parameters of any block, in the project, without having to double click on that block.
Pressing the right mouse button in a document will allow you to customize the popup floating menu.
When connecting blocks, you can use the right mouse button to connect the same source block to multiple destination blocks.
You can create your own blocks for use in the Block Diagram environment.
The block wizard drastically reduces the development time of all new blocks.
You can create your own stand alone Windows applications with the HAppI Wizard.
You can set variables in one block by using the output of another block.
Any block can control the execution of any other block using control connections.
Any block can set the parameters of any other block using parameter connections.
The compile order of all the blocks can be set manually.
You can make notes directly on the worksheet by using the Text Box command on the toolbar.
You can e-mail worksheets to other users or directly to the technical support department at Hyperception by using the Send command on the File menu.
You can create your own toolbars which contain the blocks you use most often by selecting the "Customize Toolbars" command from the Options menu.
Connections between blocks can go from the source block to the destination block or from the destination block to the source block.
User defined tools can be easily added to the Tools menu using the "Customize Tools" command.
